.\" Written by Ben Morgan <uv.sound@gmail.com>
.TH Moped 1 "31 December 2009" "Moped 2.14"
.SH NAME
Moped \- flexible MPD playlist and playback manipulation


.SH SYNOPSIS
moped [options] \<operations\>


.SH DESCRIPTION
Moped is an advanced playlist manipulation tool for the Music Player Daemon,
also known as MPD. Moped provides a flexible and efficient way to manipulate
the playlist, as well as perform some other minor extra tasks.

This is achieved primarily through search functionality. The majority of
operations that are executed with Moped will be using this search functionality,
as a way of selecting songs in the music library or the playlist and then
manipulating them in some way.


.SH SYNTAX
The syntax in Moped is incredibly complex, and yet simple and flexible at the
same time. (In order to make searching and adding and removing songs as simple
and quick as possible, it was made complex.)

Moped commands are typically composed of options and a Moped operation
containing one or more keywords with one or more search terms; there are some
options for which operations are optional. The basic Moped command has the
format

.RS
.B operation: search term
.RE

where
.I operation
is a string of one or more keyword characters.
The search term then follows after the colon (followed by an optional space).

Observe a very simple example of adding all the songs from a particular artist,
an album, and a track:
.RS
a: artist b: album t:track
.RE

.SS The Search Query
TODO: The search query is divided into levels.

.SS Operation Flags
Operations tell Moped what to do with the selection. The primary and default
operation in Moped is to add songs to the playlist. This operation has no
character or flag assigned to it \- thus if you omit an operation,
then Moped will assume you want to add the selection.
.TP
.B r
remove the selected songs from the playlist, if they exist.
.TP
.B !
exclude from the overall selection this particular selection.
.TP
.B e
use regular expressions for the search terms.
It is useful to put the search terms in single quotes for this.
.TP
.B m
search multiple search terms with the same operation.
Search terms are divided by spaces; therefore, if a search term
has spaces in it, put the search term in quotes.
Note that this operation is ignored with groups!
.TP
.B +
define a group to be a union instead of an intersection.
This flag is exclusively for groups (see section
.I Unions and Intersections
).

.SS Keywords
Keywords tell Moped in which tag it should search. Each keyword is a single
character. If multiple keywords are given in the same operation, the last
keyword is used; if no keyword is given than the default keyword
.I t
is used.
.TP
.B t
title (default)
.TP
.B a
artist
.TP
.B b
album
.TP
.B n
track number
.TP
.B g
genre
.TP
.B y
year
.TP
.B f
filename
.TP
.B c
comment
.TP
.B x
any field

.SS Search Terms
The operation flags determine what to do, the keywords determine where to
search, and the search terms determine what is searched.

Search terms can be put in single and in double qoutes, although in most
cases this is not necessary. If a single or a double quote is in the search
term itself however, it must be escaped or the entire term must be put in
opposite quotes.

Note that Moped searches for the exact phrase of a search term. Thus if you
search for the artist "The Fray" and the search term is "Teh Fray", Moped will
only find songs with "Teh Fray" in the artist tag.

If you search for an artist, whose name is part of the names of other artists,
Moped will return a list of all the artists. There is no current way to search
for exactly this artist and nothing more. In fact, even if you use regular
expressions, it will not work. This will hopefully change in the future.

.SS Unions and Intersections
The fundamental function of groups is to provide multiple criteria to a search.
Thus, a group is by default, an intersection of the results of the search
queries in that group. This operation is defined by default, no character
is required:
.RS
<a: search term t: search term 2>
.RE

The group may also however be a union of the results of the searches in the
group. This however, is already provided without a group, thus this
functionality is really only useful for some exotic search queries.
.RS
+<a: search term t: search term 2>
.RE


.SH SYNTAX EXAMPLES
The most basic example of a Moped command would be to insert a single track
into the playlist, by using the default operation and the default keyword:
.RS
Landing in London
.RE

Using a little bit more power from Moped, we could insert an album, all the
songs from a particular artist, and two different tracks:
.RS
b: Hatchery a: 3 Doors mt: "Breaking the Habit" "Easier to Run"
.RE

Note that, because we have only been specifying keywords and search terms,
we do not have to provide the full term, just part of it.

Suppose that we want to remove a song from a particular artist:
.RS
r<a: Red t: Pieces>
.RE

Alternatively we could make it more complicated with another query:
.RS
+<a:Linkin Park !t:Intro> r<b: Hybrid Theory>
.RE


.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -h, --help
show an overview of the options and exit
.TP
.B -i, --insert
insert the song(s) how many places after current
.TP
.B -a, --append
append the song(s) at the end of the playlist, implies --no-advance
.TP
.B -d, --all-songs
just insert all songs, assumes --crop and --append
.TP
.B -s, --ishuffle
shuffle intelligently (by artist)
.TP
.B -n, --no-shuffle
do not shuffle the songs that are added
.TP
.B -c, --crop
crop playlist and count saved songs. That is, it will save as many
songs as the command is repeated. So if you used -ccc it will crop
the playlist but leave the current song and the next two in the playlist.
.TP
.B -l, --clear
clear the playlist
.TP
.B -t, --no-advance
do not advance to the next song if stopped
.TP
.B -x, --unique
make sure that all the songs being added to the playlist are unique
.TP
.B -b, --blacklist
use the blacklist specified in the configuration file
.TP
.B -v --verbose
specify the verbosity of moped: -v = status, -vv = debug messages
.TP
.B -q, --quiet
specify how silent moped is to be: -q = errors, -qq = nothing at all, ever
.TP
.B -f, --no-config
do not load the configuration file
.TP
.B -g, --gtk
use a graphical command line enterpreter (recommended)
.TP
.B -u, --dryrun
perform just a search, but do not manipulate the playlist


.SH HINTS AND TIPS
Moped becomes especially useful when you bind it to a key-combination in X11.
Moped was not developed to facilitate access to basic playback functions,
such as play, pause, stop, next or previous. These functions can already
be simply bound to key-combinations with the use of a program such as
.B mpc.


.SH BUGS
Searching for comments does not work. This is theoretically possible, but
there is a problem in MPD which causes all comment searches to return no
results.

Should you find any (other) bugs in Moped, please send me an email.


.SH AUTHOR
Ben Morgan <uv.sound@gmail.com>

